---
title: Introducing faur
subtitle: An opinionated, lightweight AUR helper
comments: true
---

So, in light of the recent issue with malware cropping up in the AUR I
decided to stop using AUR helpers like `aurman` and `yay` as they make
it too easy to just install things without reading the PKGBUILD.

I reduced down the number of AUR packages I use to around 10 but it's
still rather tedious keeping them updated---having to run
`cd $pkg && git pull` several times in a row is the sort of thing that
should be automated: and that's exactly what I did.

AUR helper might be a bit of a misnomer (and certainly an
overstatement), it's a 50 line shell script that does nothing except
fetch packages from the aur, check if they need updates, notifying the
user about those that do. It's been useful enough to me, so I decided to
polish it up a little bit and push it to the AUR.

I think the help message/usage example summarizes just how simple it is:

    $ faur help
    USAGE: faur fetch [pkg...]
           faur update
           faur help

    $ faur update
    The following packages need updating: 
      ./pyroom
      ./stack-bin

    $ faur fetch hello
    Cloning into 'hello'...
    remote: Enumerating objects: 4, done.
    remote: Counting objects: 100% (4/4), done.
    remote: Compressing objects: 100% (4/4), done.
    remote: Total 4 (delta 0), reused 4 (delta 0)
    Unpacking objects: 100% (4/4), done.

Packages still have to be installed manually, and `faur` doesn't do any
dependency resolution which encourages you to *actually read* the
`PKGBUILD`.

By default packages get downloaded to `~/aur`, but this can be
configured by means of the environment variable `$AURDIR`. The url of
the AUR is configurable as well, so if, for whatever reason, you want to
fetch a package from a users github instead of the AUR you can use

    $ AUR_PATH=https://github.com/bob/ faur fetch my-package

It's available at:
<https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/faur/>
