---
title: Why I haven't been posting
subtitle: Procrastination and Plans for the Summer
layout: post
comments: true
---

It's been almost two years since the last time I wrote any blog posts. I 
never finished Google Summer of Code, I withdrew about half way through 
the program due to depression---something I've struggled with for a long 
time. The last two years have been stressful, both personally and 
academically. That's probably not unexpected when one is studying 
theoretical physics.

I've wanted to post, and to write something worthwhile. Long story 
short, I procrastinated. I've done plenty but write in order to avoid 
writing. I changed the theme of the blog, multiple times. I've 
considered migrating the blog from jekyll to hakyll (I'm definitely 
going to do that at some point, I like the idea of using pandoc for all 
of my documents, including blog posts). 

I've even read about procrastination. It started one evening with me 
discovering the [famous internet essay by John 
Perry](http://structuredprocrastination.com), and ended early the 
following morning with me finishing his book *The Art of 
Procrastination: A Guide to Effective Dawdling, Lollygagging and 
Postponing*.

This summer I'm going to be working on a research project in the school 
of maths in TCD entitled "Non-planar anomalous dimensions in 
$\mathcal{N}=4$ super Yang--Mills". This is a bit of a step up from the 
last bit of mathematics I mentioned on this blog, namely a *Linear 
Algebra 2* exam from two years ago (which went quite well), and will 
involve learning about non-abelian [Gauge 
theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gauge_theory) as well as giving me 
a chance to play around with 
[`sympy`](https://www.sympy.org/en/index.html). I hope to write more on 
this project soon, documenting it as I go along right here on this blog.
